1 Announcement
**************

This is version 0.32.0 of the GNUstep GUI library (‘gnustep-gui’).

1.1 What is the GNUstep GUI Library?
====================================

It is a library of graphical user interface classes written completely
in the Objective-C language; the classes are based upon Apple's Cocoa
framework.  The library has been enhanced in a number of ways to take
advantage of the GNU system.  These classes include graphical objects
such as buttons, text fields, popup lists, browser lists, and windows;
there are also many associated classes for handling events, colors,
fonts, pasteboards and images.

   The GNUstep GUI Library is designed in two parts.  The first part is
the front-end component which is independent of platform and display
system.  This front-end is combined with a back-end component which
handles all of the display system dependent such as specific calls to
X/Windows.  This design allows the GNUstep applications to have the
"look and feel" of the underlying display system without any changes to
the application, and the library can be easily ported to other display
systems.

   The GNUstep GUI Library requires the GNU Objective-C compiler, the
GNUstep Base Library, the TIFF Graphics library, Independent JPEG
Group's libjpeg library, and a back-end component from the GNUstep
'Back' library.

   Additional functionality may be enabled by installing additional
libraries.  For example, to build the Cairo backend in the GNUstep Back
library, you will need to install Cairo.

1.2 Noteworthy changes in version ‘0.32.0’
==========================================

This version adds binding support for NSBrowser, NSOutlineView and
NSTableView.  Plus the usual bunch of bug fixes.

   • Add support for bindings in NSBrowser.
   • Return top level object when loading .gorm files.
   • Add bindings support to NSOutlineView,
   • Add support for 10.6 item-based delegate methods to NSBrowser.
   • Add NSMenuToolbarItem.
   • Add view based rendering to NSTableView and NSOutlineView.
   • Add code to NSTreeController.
   • Fix display of icons if the home is a symlink.
   • Make some ivars in NSView protected instead of package scoped.
   • Fix CI pipeline.
   • Revert _updateFieldEditor: on NSTextFieldCell.
   • GSTheme bug fix by Tom Sheffler <tom.sheffler@gmail.com>.
   • Fix memory leaks in test code.
   • Don't load nil filename in NSImageRep.
   • Prevent flickering in NSClipView.
   • Simplify ICU configuration.
   • Move GSColorSliderCell into gui itself.
   • Bugfix for NSMenuView.
   • Fix single colum handling in NSCollectionView.
   • Additional GSTheme method(s) for NSTabView.
   • Modify NSComboBox to handle attributed strings.
   • NSTextFieldCell: Decode placeholder string.
   • Make white default selection highlight color for NSTableView.
   • Implement showsresizeindicator.
   • NSApplication: toggle menu item "Hide" title and action on user
     click.
   • Add NSCellHitResult typedef, introduced in OSX 10.10.
   • Make menu visiblity themable.
   • Fix decoding alternateContents in NSButtonCell.
   • Font Panel autosizing fix.
   • Implement integerValue method in NSSliderCell.
   • NSBox: use macro to decode NSInteger into enum.
   • Fall back to pkgconfig for resolving libtiff.
   • GSMemoryPanel: Only call GSDebug* in debug mode.
   • Add APPKIT_EXPORT_CLASS, APPKIT_EXPORT annotations for some GS*
     classes.
   • Push modal window to top later in process.

1.3 Where can you get it? How can you compile it?
=================================================

The gnustep-gui-0.32.0.tar.gz distribution file has been placed at
<ftp://ftp.gnustep.org/pub/gnustep/core>.

   It is accompanied by gnustep-gui-0.32.0.tar.gz.sig, a PGP signature
which you can validate by putting both files in the same directory and
using:

     gpg --verify gnustep-gui-0.32.0.tar.gz.sig

   Signature has been created using the key with the following
fingerprint:

     83AA E47C E829 A414 6EF8  3420 CA86 8D4C 9914 9679

   Read the INSTALL file or the GNUstep-HOWTO for installation
instructions.

1.4 Where do I send bug reports?
================================

Please log bug reports on the GNUstep project page
<http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=gnustep> or send bug reports to
<bug-gnustep@gnu.org>.

1.5 Obtaining GNU Software
==========================

Check out the GNUstep web site.  (<http://www.gnustep.org/>), and the
GNU web site.  (<http://www.gnu.org/>)

