1 Installation
**************

1.1 Introduction
================

This file documents the installation of the GNUstep GUI Library,
‘gnustep-gui’.  If you are installing this package as part of the
GNUstep core package, read the file GNUstep-HOWTO for more complete
instructions on how to install the entire GNUstep package (including
this library).  GNUstep-HOWTO is located at <http://www.gnustep.org> and
in the gnustep-make package (which you should install first).

   You must have installed gnustep-base and gnustep-make before building
this library.  GNUstep Make version 2.0.0 or greater is required.
GNUstep Base version 1.15.0 or greater is required.

   Other external libraries that you should have installed include:

   • tiff (REQUIRED)
   • jpeg (RECOMMENDED)
   • png (RECOMMENDED)
   • gif or ungif (OPTIONAL)
   • aspell (OPTIONAL)
   • cups (OPTIONAL)
   • audiofile (OPTIONAL)
   • portaudio, v19 which has several API changes previous version
     (OPTIONAL)

   Read the GNUstep-HOWTO for more information.  After installing this
library, install gnustep-back.

1.2 Configuration
=================

Configuration is performed by running the ‘configure’ program at a shell
prompt.  You may want to use some of the optional arguments to the
‘configure’ program.  Type ‘configure --help’ for a list.  GNUstep
specific options are at the end of this list (if any).

1.3 Compilation
===============

To compile this library, type make.  After this is complete, type make
install (make sure you are the root user).  Some additional options you
can use with make are ‘debug=yes’ to make a debugging version of the
library and ‘shared=no’ to make a static version of the library.  See
the gstep-make package for more information on these options.

1.4 Installing
==============

To install, type

     make install

1.5 Post Installation
=====================

GNUstep gui comes with a tool called ‘make_services’ which builds a list
of installed applications and services.  This list is used to find
services for the services menu, for instance.  This tool should be run
after a new service or application is installed in the system.
Theoretically, a workspace application, such as GWorkspace, should do
this automatically.  But this is not done at the current time.  You
might consider running this service automatically, perhaps in a login
script, to make sure the service and application lists are updated
regularly.

