GNUstep GUI Library
====================

[![CI](https://github.com/gnustep/libs-gui/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gnustep/libs-gui/actions/workflows/main.yml?query=branch%3Amaster)

The GNUstep gui library is a library of graphical user interface classes
written completely in the Objective-C language; the classes are based
upon Apple's Cocoa framwork (which came from the OpenStep
specification).  These classes include graphical objects such as
buttons, text fields, popup lists, browser lists, and windows; there are
also many associated classes for handling events, colors, fonts,
pasteboards and images.

Initial reading
---------------
The file [ANNOUNCE](ANNOUNCE) contains a very brief overview of the library.
It also tells you where to get the most recent version.
     
The file [NEWS](NEWS) has the library's feature history.

The files [INSTALL](INSTALL) or [GNUstep-HOWTO][1] (from the web site)
gives instructions for installing the library.

[1]: http://www.gnustep.org/resources/documentation/User/GNUstep/gnustep-howto.pdf

License
-------

The GNUstep libraries and library resources are covered under the GNU
Lesser Public License.  This means you can use these libraries in any
program (even non-free programs).  If you distribute the libraries along
with your program, you must make the improvements you have made to the
libraries freely available.  You should read the COPYING.LIB file for
more information.  All files in the 'Source', 'Headers', directories and
subdirectories under this are covered under the LGPL.

GNUstep tools, test programs, and other files are covered under the
GNU Public License.  This means if you make changes to these programs,
you cannot charge a fee, other than distribution fees, for others to use
the program.  All files in this package EXCEPT files in the 'Tools'
directories and subdirectories under this are covered under the LGPL.

How can you help?
-----------------

Give us feedback! Tell us what you like; tell us what you think could be better.

Please log bug reports on the [GitHub issues page][2].

[2]: https://github.com/gnustep/libs-gui/issues

Happy hacking!

Copyright (C) 2005, 2024 Free Software Foundation

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
