@c -*- texinfo -*-
@chapter ANNOUNCE
@ifset TEXT-ONLY
@include version.texi
@end ifset

This is version @value{GNUSTEP-GUI-VERSION} of the GNUstep GUI library (@samp{gnustep-gui}).

@section What is the GNUstep GUI Library?

It is a library of graphical user interface classes written completely 
in the Objective-C language; the classes are based upon the OpenStep
specification as release by NeXT Software, Inc.  The library does not 
completely conform to the specification and has been
enhanced in a number of ways to take advantage of the GNU system.  
These classes include graphical objects such as buttons, text fields, 
popup lists, browser lists, and windows; there are also many associated 
classes for handling events, colors, fonts, pasteboards and images.

The GNUstep GUI Library is designed in two parts.  The first part is the
front-end component which is independent of platform and display system.
This front-end is combined with a back-end component which handles all of
the display system dependent such as specific calls to X/Windows.  This
design allows the GNUstep applications to have the "look and feel" of
the underlying display system without any changes to the application, and
the library can be easily ported to other display systems.

The GNUstep GUI Library requires the GNU Objective-C compiler, the
GNUstep Base Library, the TIFF Graphics library, and a back-end
component like the GNUstep X/DPS GUI Backend.

@section What's new in this release?
@set ANNOUNCE-ONLY
@include news.texi
@clear ANNOUNCE-ONLY

@section How can I get support for this software?

We currently do not have a mailing list setup explicitly for the
GNUstep GUI Library; however, you may wish to use the GNUstep
discussion mailing list for general questions and discussion.  Look at
the GNUstep Web Pages for more information regarding GNUstep resources
@url{http://www.gnustep.org/}

@section Where can you get it?  How can you compile it?

@ifset GNUSTEP-GUI-FTP-MACHINE
The gstep-gui-@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-VERSION}.tar.gz distribution
file has been placed on @samp{@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-FTP-MACHINE}} in
@samp{@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-FTP-DIRECTORY}}.
@end ifset
@ifclear GNUSTEP-GUI-FTP-MACHINE
The gstep-gui-@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-VERSION}.tar.gz distribution
file has not been made available by anonymous ftp.
@end ifclear

The program requires gcc @value{GNUSTEP-GUI-GCC} or higher.

The Display Ghostscript System version
@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-DGS} and the TIFF Graphics library version
@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-LIBTIFF} may be required depending on the backend
you choose.

It also requires a FoundationKit library as specified by the OpenStep
specification.  The FoundationKit libraries known to work are the GNUstep
Base Library version @samp{@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-BASE}}.

The @samp{.tar} file is compressed with GNU gzip.  Gzip can be obtained by
anonymous ftp at any of the GNU archive sites.

For info about FTP via email, send email to
@email{ftpmail@@decwrl.dec.com} with no subject line, and two-line body
with line one @samp{help} and line two @samp{quit}.

The most recent (not necessarily tested) snapshots of the library will
be placed in 
@url{ftp://@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-SNAP-FTP-MACHINE}/@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-SNAP-FTP-DIRECTORY}}.

@section Where do I send bug reports?

Bug reports can be sent to 
@email{bug-gnustep@@gnu.org}.

@section Obtaining GNU Software

Check out the GNU web site. (@url{http://www.gnu.org/})

Check out the GNUstep web site. (@url{http://www.gnustep.org/})

The GNUstep GUI Library was donated to the Free Software Foundation
as part of the On-line Community project of NET-Community.  NET-Community is
a company that develops and supports free software.  Check out
their web site to learn more. (@url{http://www.net-community.com/})

Most GNU software is packed using the GNU `gzip' compression program.
Source code is available on most sites distributing GNU software.

For information on how to order GNU software on tape, floppy or cd-rom,
or printed GNU manuals, check the file etc/ORDERS in the GNU Emacs
distribution or in GNUinfo/ORDERS on prep, or e-mail a request to:
@email{gnu@@gnu.org}

By ordering your GNU software from the FSF, you help us continue to
develop more free software.  Media revenues are our primary source of
support.  Donations to FSF are deductible on US tax returns.

The above software will soon be at these ftp sites as well.
Please try them before @samp{ftp.gnu.org} as it is very busy!

thanx @email{gnu@@gnu.org}

@table @strong

@item ASIA:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://ftp.cs.titech.ac.jp}
@item @url{ftp://utsun.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/ftpsync/prep}
@item @url{ftp://cair.kaist.ac.kr/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.nectec.or.th/pub/mirrors/gnu}
@end itemize

@item AUSTRALIA:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://archie.au/gnu} (archie.oz or archie.oz.au for ACSnet)
@end itemize

@item AFRICA:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://ftp.sun.ac.za/pub/gnu}
@end itemize

@item MIDDLE-EAST:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://ftp.technion.ac.il/pub/unsupported/gnu}
@end itemize

@item EUROPE:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://irisa.irisa.fr/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.univ-lyon1.fr/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.mcc.ac.uk}
@item @url{ftp://unix.hensa.ac.uk/pub/uunet/systems/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://src.doc.ic.ac.uk/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.ieunet.ie/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.eunet.ch}
@item @url{ftp://nic.switch.ch/mirror/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.informatik.rwth-aachen.de/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.informatik.tu-muenchen.de}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.win.tue.nl/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.funet.fi/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.denet.dk}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.stacken.kth.se}
@item @url{ftp://isy.liu.se}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.luth.se/pub/unix/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.sunet.se/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://archive.eu.net}
@end itemize

@item SOUTH AMERICA:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://ftp.unicamp.br/pub/gnu}
@end itemize

@item WESTERN CANADA:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://ftp.cs.ubc.ca/mirror2/gnu}
@end itemize

@item USA:
@itemize @minus
@item @url{ftp://wuarchive.wustl.edu/systems/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://labrea.stanford.edu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.digex.net/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.kpc.com/pub/mirror/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://f.ms.uky.edu/pub3/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://jaguar.utah.edu/gnustuff}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.hawaii.edu/mirrors/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://vixen.cso.uiuc.edu/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu/pub/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.cs.columbia.edu/archives/gnu/prep}
@item @url{ftp://col.hp.com/mirrors/gnu}
@item @url{ftp://gatekeeper.dec.com/pub/GNU}
@item @url{ftp://ftp.uu.net/systems/gnu}
@end itemize

@end table
