@c -*- texinfo -*-
@chapter Installation

@ifset TEXT-ONLY
@include version.texi
@end ifset

This file documents the installation of the GNUstep GUI 
Library, @samp{gnustep-gui}.  Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.  You may copy, distribute, and modify it freely as long
as you preserve this copyright notice and permission notice.

This is version @value{GNUSTEP-GUI-VERSION} of the GNUstep GUI library.

@section Installing @samp{gnustep-gui}

Here is a quick-and-dirty example of installation commands:

@example
./configure --prefix=/usr/GNUstep
make
make install
@end example

Here are more detailed instructions.

@enumerate
@item
Install @samp{gcc}.  The library requires gcc version
@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-GCC} or later.

@item
Install @samp{gnustep-base} or @samp{libFoundation}.  This library requires the 
classes either in the GNUstep Base Library or libFoundation. You must also
apply the Objective-C Runtime patches to GCC which makes the runtime
thread-safe, if your version of GCC lacks them.

@item
Install the @samp{TIFF} library.  This library requires the header files
in the TIFF library to compile; the TIFF library is used for the NSImage
and associated classes for reading, writing, and manipulating tiff files.

@item
Install @samp{DGS}.  Though this library does not directly use the Display
Ghostscript System; it does require the DPS client library headers
in order to compile.  You should have at least version 
@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-DGS}; likewise, you could just install the DPS client
library itself in which use version @value{GNUSTEP-GUI-DPSCLIENT}.

@item
Configure the package for your system.  In the directory that this
file is in, type @file{./configure}.  If you're using @file{csh} on an old
version of System V, you might need to type @samp{sh configure} instead
to prevent @samp{csh} from trying to execute @file{configure} itself.

The @file{configure} shell script attempts to guess correct values for
various system-dependent variables used during compilation, and
creates the Makefile(s) (one in each subdirectory of the source
directory).  In some packages it creates a C header file
containing system-dependent definitions.  It also creates a file
@file{config.status} that you can run in the future to recreate the
current configuration.

Running @file{configure} takes less than a minute or two.  While it is
running, it prints some messages that tell what it is doing.  If
you don't want to see the messages, run @file{configure} with its
standard output redirected to @file{/dev/null}; for example:
@smallexample
./configure >/dev/null
@end smallexample

To compile the package in a different directory from the one
containing the source code, you must use a version of make that
supports the VPATH variable, such as GNU make.  @samp{cd} to the
directory where you want the object files and executables to go and
run @file{configure}.  @file{configure} automatically checks for the
source code in the directory that @file{configure} is in and in
@file{..}.  If for some reason @file{configure} is not in the source
code directory that you are configuring, then it will report that it
can't find the source code.  In that case, run @file{configure} with
the option @samp{--srcdir=DIR}, where DIR is the directory that
contains the source code.

By default, @samp{make install} will install the package's files in
/usr/local/bin, /usr/local/lib, /usr/local/man, etc.  You can specify
an installation prefix other than /usr/local by giving
@file{configure} the option @samp{--prefix=PATH}.  Alternately, you
can do so by giving a value for the @samp{prefix} variable when you
run @samp{make}, e.g.,
@smallexample
make prefix=/usr/gnu
@end smallexample

You can specify separate installation prefixes for
architecture-specific files and architecture-independent files.  If
you give @file{configure} the option @samp{--exec_prefix=PATH} or set
the @samp{make} variable @samp{exec_prefix} to PATH, the package will
use PATH as the prefix for installing programs and libraries.  Data
files and documentation will still use the regular prefix.  Normally,
all files are installed using the regular prefix.

You can tell @file{configure} to figure out the configuration for your
system, and record it in @file{config.status}, without actually
configuring the package (creating Makefile(s) and perhaps a
configuration header file).  To do this, give @file{configure} the
@samp{--no-create} option.  Later, you can run @file{./config.status}
to actually configure the package.  This option is useful mainly in
@file{Makefile} rules for updating @file{config.status} and
@file{Makefile}.  You can also give @file{config.status} the
@samp{--recheck} option, which makes it re-run @file{configure} with
the same arguments you used before.  This is useful if you change
@file{configure}.

@file{configure} ignores any other arguments that you give it.

If your system requires unusual options for compilation or linking
that @file{configure} doesn't know about, you can give
@file{configure} initial values for some variables by setting them in
the environment.  In Bourne-compatible shells, you can do that on the
command line like this:
@smallexample
CC='gcc -traditional' DEFS=-D_POSIX_SOURCE ./configure
@end smallexample
     
The @samp{make} variables that you might want to override with
environment variables when running @file{configure} are:

(For these variables, any value given in the environment overrides
the value that `configure' would choose:)
@table @samp

@item CC
C compiler program.  Default is @samp{cc}, or @samp{gcc} if @samp{gcc} is in
your PATH.

@item INSTALL
Program to use to install files.  Default is @samp{install} if you
have it, @samp{install.sh} otherwise.
@end table

(For these variables, any value given in the environment is added
to the value that @file{configure} chooses:)
@table @samp

@item DEFS
Configuration options, in the form @samp{-Dfoo -Dbar ...}

@item LIBS
Libraries to link with, in the form @samp{-lfoo -lbar ...}
@end table

If you need to do unusual things to compile the package, we
encourage you to figure out how @file{configure.in} could check whether to
do them, and mail diffs or instructions to the address given in
the @file{README} so we can include them in the next release.

@item
Type @samp{make} to compile the package.  If you want, you can override
the @samp{make} variables @samp{CFLAGS} and @samp{LDFLAGS} like this:
@smallexample
make CFLAGS=-O2 LDFLAGS=-s
@end smallexample

@item
Type @samp{make install} to install the library, data files, header
files, and documentation.

@item
You can remove the program binaries and object files from the
source directory by typing @samp{make clean}.  To also remove the
Makefile(s), and @file{config.status} (all the files that @file{configure}
created), type @samp{make distclean}.

The file @file{configure.in} is used as a template to create
@file{configure} by a program called @file{autoconf}.  You will only
need it if you want to regenerate @file{configure} using a newer
version of @file{autoconf}.
@end enumerate
