@c -*-texinfo-*-
@ifclear ANNOUNCE-ONLY
@chapter NEWS
@end ifclear

@ifset TEXT-ONLY
@include version.texi
@end ifset

The currently released version of the library is @samp{@value{GNUSTEP-GUI-VERSION}}.

@section Noteworthy changes in version @samp{0.3.0}

@itemize @bullet

@item
Completely reworked the menu class. The NSMenu class is now inherited from
NSObject and using the new implementation menus have been implemented for the
XDPS backend (they have the look and feel of the NeXTStep menus!).

@item
NSRunLoop has been integrated with NSApplication. Using this capability time
events have been implemented to NSEvent class. These events allow several
improvements in the interaction between user and the graphic interface.

@item
NSMatrix has been reworked, it is now conforming to the OpenStep specification
and it knows all the selection modes. It uses time events to enhance the
drawing speed during mouse drags.

@item
The initial implementation of NSForm has been made although it has not been
tested yet.

@item
NSPrinter has been implemented though it was not throughly tested; thanks to
Simon Frankau.

@item
Configure script has been changed to detect the underlaying Foundation library.
The currently supported libraries are gnustep-base and libFoundation.

@item
Several cleanups have been made in a lot of classes: the retain/release policy
has been fixed, the cell classes correctly implement the NSCopying protocol
and many others.

@end itemize

@c ====================================================================
@c Keep the next line just below the list of changes in most recent version.
@ifclear ANNOUNCE-ONLY

@section Noteworthy changes in version @samp{0.2.0}

@itemize @bullet

@item
Additional NSImage and NSImageRep class work.  Incorporated common
images for use with controls that were designed by Andrew Lindesay.

@item
Fill out implementation of NSColorWell class.

@item
Fill out implementation of NSColorList class.

@item
Cleaned up the header files and added missing headers, methods,
categories, and protocols; thanks to Simon Frankau for much of this
work.  Major reorganization of header files.  Types and constants were
moved in the files they belong.  Each header file includes only the
headers it really needs.  Use @samp{@@class} to forward class definitions
instead of including the corresponding class file.

@item
Completely reworked the NSFont and NSFontManager classes so that
NSUserDefaults is used for getting defaults and list of known fonts are
maintained.

@item
Initial implementation of NSCursor class.

@item
Almost complete implementation of NSButton and NSButtonCell class.
Buttons can now display images and/or text, handles all of the OpenStep
button types and styles.

@item
Fill out implementation of NSScroller class.

@item
Put in underlying support for optimizing drawing; flushing of windows,
backing store, and only display when needed.

@item
Many bug fixes and minor enhancements.

@end itemize

@section Noteworthy changes in version @samp{0.1.1}

@itemize @bullet

@item
Almost complete implementation of the PXKMenu and PXKMenuCell classes.

@item
Fill out implementation of NSFont and NSFontManager.

@item
Fill out implementation of NSColor including color spaces other than
RGB.  Now maintains the common colors as global variables.

@item
Integration with the Display Ghostscript System.  This is mainly related
to using the header files in the DPSclient library for defining the
PostScript operator functions.

@item
Initial documentation set.

@item
Initial implementation of NSImage, NSImageRep, and NSImageRep subclass
classes based upon work by Adam Fedor.

@item
Now requires the TIFF library for reading, writing, and manipulating
tiff files and images.

@end itemize

@section Noteworthy changes in version @samp{0.1.0}

@itemize @bullet

@item
Integration of the GNUstep X/DPS GUI Backend.  This has finally
produced a set of core code with can display on X/Windows.
Much of the X/Windows code has been written by Pascal Forget 
@email{pascal@@wsc.com} and integration efforts have been lead by Scott
Christley @email{scottc@@net-community.com}.

@item
Some major directory reorganization for the new naming guidelines.
Headers previously in AppKit and DPSClient directories have been moved
to gnustep/gui and gnustep/dps directores and symbol links are
created for the AppKit and DPSClient directories.  This should allow
both GNUstep and other OpenStep implementations to reside on the
same machine without conflicts.
@end itemize

Also see the @samp{ChangeLog} file for more detail.

@end ifclear
@c end ifclear ANNOUNCE-ONLY
